all i have for you is a word
tell it use it carefully
audiences have never seen anything like
this before
it's a swift kind of action-packed
adventure movie there are certainly
images
that i have never seen before on screen
it's a
really hair-raising high-stakes thriller
from an extraordinary filmmaker
to do what i do i need some idea of the
threat we face
tenet is an espionage story it's it's a
classic spy story
i grew up loving spy movies but to make
it
sing to today's audiences i sort of felt
like for me to really engage with it i
wanted it to have
bigger possibilities time travel
no inversion the film deals with this
concept of inversion which is the idea
that the
entropy of an object or a person it
could be reversed
it's very much cinematic it's something
that you have to
see on the screen to fully engage with
name it and pull the trigger
yeah shooting the bullet you're catching
it
whoa i really pulled from and dug into
my athletic experience more than ever
the training was paramount
nobody's ever thrown an inverted punch
before so how does how do you make that
real life you know
he had incredibly complex fight
sequences
we definitely pushed him to his limits
it was intense that's what was so
exciting these moves we've never seen
before i mean these stunt guys who've
been around a long time
they were learning which was the fun
challenge of it all
[Music]
well i've seen too much well we'll try
and keep up
this is my third film with chris nolan
you kind of realize when you read it oh
how are we going to do this because he's
going to want to do this for real
[Music]
chris is really great in that he wants
it for real he wants it in camera
he doesn't want to do cg i haven't seen
a green screen
anywhere um we're doing everything in
camera
our method of visual effects is try and
do
everything without them
that's almost like documentary like it's
all practical it's all there
it just pumps you up to know that and
it's extremely helpful obviously on the
performance level for the actors
i think the audience is always aware on
some level of the difference between
things that are animated and something
that's been photographed
we always take the approach that if we
possibly can we'd like the actors to be
in real environments
well i was in i didn't want any stunt
though i wanted to do it for the team
because
it just benefits the film everybody was
blown away by
john david's enthusiasm the physicality
of that man is
you know out of this world if we hadn't
had a performer
of such skill and energy those things
wouldn't have been possible to do in
camera
chris after one of the meetings he was
like it's gonna be hard he said it just
like that
and i laughed but uh you know months
later
yeah you were right sir that's very hard
chris always sets the tone he sets the
tone for me and for the actors
the actor on the chris nolan shoot is
very much
you know it's very much part of a crew
do you feel the sense that this is
someone who's telling the story this way
because that's what he
passionately believes in this man he
just stands there
i don't know how he does it he's right
there his involvement
is more than 100 he really loves it he
can just keep shooting the rains coming
down he's like loving it
you'd lose the right to complain about
anything now it's a good move on his
part
it's infectious you can't help but to
want to keep going and give it your all
every film
you're trying to challenge yourself
because you're trying to give something
new to the audience
you do that by building on what you've
done in the past every production we
have came a step further and
every production has more and more
sequences in it that we chose to shoot
on imax
at this point they're sort of the
workhorse for us which is really funny
because when we first started shooting
with them it was such a big deal
it's a very imposing camera feels very
important when you shoot something on
imax
there's a nice pressure to it it kind of
makes you bring your a-game
pretty quickly because you know that
this film is
kind of precious
as i understand it we're trying to
prevent world war three
i'm not saying armageddon here no
something worse
the international component of tennant
is very important to the story because
it's really about
threat to the entire world chris always
envisioned this film as a sort of
globetrotting
action epic and obviously the best way
to do that is to actually travel
yourself
it definitely plays into the sort of
scope of the film
you know it enlarges the canvas we were
going places
during the busiest times summer in
amalfi monsoon season in
india prep on this film was
really complicated because we were based
out of
la and making plans for all these huge
action set pieces all over the world
we shut down an eight kilometer freeway
for three weeks
had hundreds and hundreds of extras and
cars and stunt men driving on it doing
great action
that was the first for me wouldn't we
ever be able to do this in life you know
to shut down a whole entire freeway it
defined the scale of it
you know in the end what you see as an
audience is a fragment or is a shot
but you are filming a reality you know
you
you want to buy into that reality so in
that way relocation always helps a lot
to be actually in the thing to
feel the thing physically move around
you or
feel the boat rock under you it just
obviously
organically feeds the truth of a
performance
it goes for his sweet spot which is how
do you make great cinema
not not just tell stories in pictures
but how do you make the experience of
cinema
yes you could recreate india in a sound
stage
or london in a sound stage and you're
not going to capture the essence or the
authenticity
and i think being in those locations the
audience gets to experience that
they're gonna see that it's not green
screen and they're gonna be amazed by it
you wanna crash a plane we're not from
the air
that was so dramatic writing the plane
crash i knew i wanted to try and do it
in some ways in camera
it read on the page as the most exciting
sequence and i definitely was scratching
my head about how we were going to
achieve it
one of the first things i asked chris
was you know how big do you want the
plane he uh
laughed and i said i think i'd get you a
real plane
to see a plane like this actually kind
of makes you realize what we're all
flying in when we're
when we're flying these things are huge
i don't think we tend to get the scale
of it when we're just kind of walking in
through the gangplank
there was an enormous amount of prep
that went into that sequence because
we were shooting at a working airport
and they're not traditionally
you know in the business of crushing
planes for real
i was like how are they gonna pull this
off like there's no way
they're gonna crash this thing into that
building a lot of these sequences you're
going to read in the script and you just
think
yeah would be cool in a movie and then
you get to set and say
yeah we've got a 747 or crashing into a
building that's how we're achieving the
747 crashing into a building
it feels very very real essentially
because it is real
[Music]
and try to understand it
feel it with tenet i'm hoping to really
give the audience a reason
for reapproaching action center so that
they get some of that sense of
excitement that i had when i was a kid
watching
the first spy movies i saw i'm hoping
that this
gives people a sort of ultimate
cinematic experience
you feel you've been taken through a
story but you also feel you're
part of the story that's what's
wonderful about his films
you just get transported into a
different world and that's what cinema
is to me it has to transport you it has
to be larger than life
i mean it's the biggest movie anyone's
ever done ever no one's doing this stuff
and i don't think they ever will again
nobody can really hold a candle to what
chris does which is
create this epic tale of survival
and in it thread an incredibly human
story
i think you're seeing christopher nolan
inspired
you're going into an experience that you
never had before in the cinema
it's a brilliantly calculated precise
controlled amazing story
that's also completely out of control
once you're on the ride of tennis you're
gonna have to really hold on to your
seat
how would you like to die oh
[Applause]
you chose the wrong profession
[Music]
you